High I want to talk a little bit about dictionary ordering and pythons 3.6 a new implementation of dict
came out in 3.6 and one of the features of that apart from being supposedly faster and more compact
is that key ordering is retained.
And what does that mean.
That just means that the older in which the keys are brought back when we iterate through the Keys or
the items or the values isn't the same order in which the keys were inserted the elements were inserted
into the dictionary.
So basically this replaces the older disks which is in the collections module in the standard library.
And I'll come back to that as well and take a look at all that dick and see if we can actually do everything
we need using just plain dictionaries but a few caveats.
First this is 3.6 only.
So it's going to have to be 3.6 and higher.
Secondly in 3.6.
It's not an official fact.
In other words it wasn't guaranteed that keys would remain the dictionaries would be ordered.
It's you know it doesn't guarantee that in 3.7.
However it does it does guarantee that if you iterated dictionary you will get it back in the same order
in which you added keys to the dictionary and it supports deletions as well.
So if your code is going to be 3.6 or higher then you can certainly leverage that feature.
But if your code has to run on both 3.6 and higher and lower than 3.6 and you need to really rely on
ordering in dictionaries then you still need to use the older dict.
Otherwise your code will break inversions versions prior to 3.6 So just be careful with that but as
long as you're writing for 3.6 and higher this is safe even though it's not official for 3.6 it will
become official for 3.7.
And I have a link to that also in the Jupiter notebook.
So it's not official official yet.
It's it was just a discussion that happened I guess in the Python developers e-mail kind of threads.
OK.
So the first thing is to make sure that we're running the correct version of Python so you should check
that if you're not absolutely sure.
So we're just going to import version info from Sis and then just look at what Rosenfels says.
And in this case you can see I'm running three point six point two.
All right so now let's see what I mean by the dictionary keys being you know having the order preserved.
Let's have a dictionary and let's put two keys in that dictionary and I'm going to put them like vi
is one and a is two.
OK.
So now if I look at the dot items let's say or I can also look at the dark keys and D-don't values OK.
And then deid of items.
If I type it correctly.
So you'll notice that the key is on the order in which I specify them in the dictionary be an A and
the values are in the same order as well and then the items are in the same order as well.
Now let's say that I go ahead and add an item and I say let's say X is three.
Now I can look at the keys again the values again and the items and you can see that X shows up as the
last key in the Keys.
The three shows up as the last value and X comma three shows up as the last item.
Now the words we're getting are older preserved.
Now what happens if I delete one.
Let's say I'm going to delete a.
So I'm going to delete a k.
And hey I got to say delete a from D.
OK.
So now I am just going to copy this.
Actually I'm just going to look at items.
That's good enough.
Well I can type it.
Maybe I should pick something I can type.
OK so it is gone right.
The second element is gone.
Now what happens if I installed it back again.
So I'm going to put back a as one.
And let's look at the items again.
And you can see a is at the end.
So it does preserve that you know that order I removed a from the middle of the dictionary.
I read that re added back in and it added it to the end of the dictionary.
So we have essentially inherent ordering in those dictionaries.
Hence why we don't need an ordered dict.
Now I want to point out something that's kind of weird and it caught me by surprise.
I wasn't aware of this because it doesn't do that in the Python interpreter.
But Jupiter notebook plays around when you display your dictionaries.
So let's see what I mean.
OK.
So look at the items you'll notice that we have B X and a look what happens if I just you know bring
back D via Jupiters.
I get a then b then x.
So I think what it's doing it's basically ordering the keys at sauteing the keys lexicographically alphabetically
if you want it soling those keys.
In this case I've got strings lexicographically and then displaying it.
So be careful do not use this as you know do not use the output of just looking at the representation
of D in Jupiter.
Based on the output here that is now incorrect.
Before it doesn't really matter because we didn't have all the guarantied so we didn't really care how
it was being displayed.
You know and in so it ordered the keys before displaying them which was pretty nice.
In fact I think the print function the pretty print function does the same thing.
The pre-print function will alter your keys before it pretty prints and there was actually a fairly
lengthy discussion about badan.
Things got a little heated but people were discussing whether pretty print should now honor the older
of the dictionaries or whether it should you know sort the keys and then print out and it's pretty print.
And so the consensus was finally that it will mean it will be backward compatible.
It will sort the keys.
So most likely Jupiter is doing something similar.
Or maybe they're using pretty print.
So we saw how we can add and remove items and it preserves the order.
So let's look at our dictionary again.
So again I can do print.
That's all fine print will still keep you know and show the correct order so you can see that be Xon
a so as the last item.
So if we say Deedat pop item it pops the rightmost item right it popped a what was that key here.
Now we've pro-India of course that values gone.
OK.
So this is kind of like a stack of cost.
I wouldn't really recommend using a dictionary as a stack.
You'll get probably better performance using a list.
So certainly not using a dictionary.
There's no real reason to do that.
So now what I'm wondering of course is well how do I pick a random item from the dictionary because
it's ordered and it's not like you could pick a random item you know from previous dictionaries because
the keys would not truly randomly ordered.
Right.
There was hash values involved and it wasn't truly random.
So I'll come back to that actually I'll probably do a short video on how to pick a random item from
a dictionary.
Now what about the update method you know that you can update one dictionary using another dictionary.
So what I mean by this.
Well let's go ahead and create this dictionary.
A is 1 and B let's say is 200.
And let's call D2 Let's make that another dictionary.
Let's say a is a hundred and D is 300.
And let's say C is 400.
So I'm just keeping the DNC not ordered.
Just so we can see if there's any kind of idiosyncrasies with that.
So here's you wanted to know what you can do is you can say D-1.
Update D-2.
And what it does essentially merges the two into D-1.
So any existing that will replace the value any keys that are not in D1 but that are indeed two will
get merged into D-1.
So what I'm interested in knowing is does the order get preserved.
And I'm guessing that when we merge the two into the it's going to replace a is going to stay in its
first position and then D is going to get added in the third position and see is going to get added
in the fourth position.
In other words the merge is going to respect the order of the keys in D2 when it adds them to D-1.
So let's see.
So we've done that so this is in place mutation of D-1.
So now let's go ahead and print D1 Let's see what we get.
And indeed we get that.
So as you can see the order was preserved so that's great.
All right so now how about all the dict.
Can we truly get rid of all addicts.
Well old addict has a few methods that are not available in the regular dict for example.
They move to and method and you specify the key that you want to move to the end and then you specify
optionally what the end is the end the beginning of the dictionary always the end the end of the dictionary.
So is that the last item or not so if you say lastic also true it's going to move it to the right side
the right most you know element of the dictionary in this altered dict.
And if you say logicals false it's going to move it to the beginning and then similarly there's also
a pop item.
So puff item also takes the last Picross true.
And basically it's going to remove an item from the dictionary.
Now we saw with the regular standard dictionary nine 3.6.
It just removes the last element.
Well that's what pop item does by default.
But if you want to remove the first element then you can say last equals false and they will remove
the first element of the dictionary not the last one.
Again if all you're looking for is some kind of list where you can add and remove items easily from
both the front end and the end of the yarn list.
You should look at deck that's in the collections module.
So those are two main items Knight also supports reversed.
So you can actually pass reversed to reverse the iteration.
Or you can call reversed on the order deck to reverse the iteration.
So I.
So when you iterate an ordered deck normally you iterate from left to right if you want to iterate from
right to the left you just reversed instead.
So let's take each one of those one by one and let's see if we can you know build an equivalent using
just plain decks.
Now in 3.6.
So the fourth one I want to look to is the move to end so move up to end.
Let's see if somehow we can do that.
So let's start with a dictionary so let's say a is 1 and B is true and C is 3.
So simple dictionary.
And let me go ahead and print what our standard state is for the dictionary.
Now what I want to do I want to take an element let's say I want to take a and I want to remove it from
the beginning and move it to the end.
So essentially what I'm going to do is I'm going to pop it right.
I'm going to pop the item with key a pop is going to return the value.
So now all I need to do is just set it to the key and remember now when I set the key because ordering
is preserved it should actually added to the end of the dictionary.
So in effect what I've done here is moved a to the end of the dictionary so that would be equivalent
to move to and you know with
with just right that end with last equal to true.
OK.
That would be equivalent to that.
So let's see now let's go ahead and print move a to and and let's just see what the state of the dictionary
is.
And that worked right in the beginning was here and now is at the end so we can do it with the move
to and lastic is true of the ordered dict.
Now how about move to front.
So by move to front what I mean is move to and last equals false.
So let's see how we might do that.
Now is not as easy because we want to put something in the beginning.
We don't really have a way to do that with a standard deck.
We can only basically add to the end but we can't add to the beginning.
So what we're going to have to do is we're going to let me start off with this dictionary and I'm just
going to copy paste that from my notes you can download the notebook.
Let's start with this and let's say that I want to move arm C to the beginning.
So the first thing that I'm going to do let me just show you kind of manually what I'm going to do.
The first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to move C to the end.
OK so I'm going to take C and I'm going to move it to the end of the dictionary.
That's going to be the first step.
And then what am I going to do.
I'm going to iterate in the dictionary and now I know that I can iterate in an ordered fashion so I
know I can start with the first key.
I'm going to take that key.
I'm going to pop it and move it to the end and then I'm going to do the same thing again with B.
I'm going to iterate again and pop it to the end and I'm going to do that again.
I'm going to take that and move it to the end by popping and re-adding and I'm going to do the same
thing.
Why remove it and put it back at the end.
And so now that I've done this you'll notice that C is now in the beginning and then the remaining keys
AB X and Y have remained in there ordering.
So that's the approach that I'm going to take here.
So let's go ahead and print what the start of is the start State of the dictionary D.
Now I'm going to pop and move over basically.
So I'm going to pop C and then re-added back immediately to the dictionary.
So that is now that has moved C to the end of the dictionary.
So let's go ahead and front that moved C to end.
OK.
So let's see if that works.
Yeah okay.
So C is at the end so we just use this technique here.
Move to and lastic equals truth.
Now would we have to do is we have to iterate for I in range and we want to iterate from what from the
first element this one up to but not including the last element.
So we're going to go to the length minus one essentially of terms of indexes.
We're going to iterate from 0 up to and including length minus two.
So we're going to iterate up to lenth of D minus 1 OK because we actually want to go to minus 2 inclusive.
And we're going to then take each one and move it to the end.
So we'll going do exactly what I showed you in that kind of manual process.
So let's go ahead and do this.
So I'm going to get an iterator on the keys.
This is not a list.
It's a view.
So I need to get an iterator and I just want to get the first one right.
That's all I'm interested in.
I just want to get the first item in that all keys.
So now that I have the key I know what the key is I need to move that item to the end of the dictionary
so I can say Deedat key equals the darte pop key.
And let's go ahead and say print move see to front.
If this works correctly we should have moved C to the front by essentially moving everything in front
of C to the back.
OK.
And let's take a look.
Yeah we've got C in front and then you'll notice that everything else here.
The order was preserved.
So that's working great.
All right.
So the next one is pop last night and how we're going to do pop.
Last item.
Well that's really straightforward.
Well we have to do when we again copy this dictionary over here to pick up the last item and we'll copy
that as well to the last item I'll have to say the deed of pop item that's the default behavior.
So top last item and you'll see that a I don't get a syntax error you'll see that indeed we removed
y from the dictionary.
OK it's gone.
OK cool.
Now how about pop first item and then when it actually is quite easy as well it's not going to be any
more difficult almost than pop last item we already know how to find the fourth key in the dictionary.
So all we need to do is copy and paste this again.
And all we need to do is just find the first key will the key that we want to pop is going to be what.
Well it's going to be we first have to get our keys.
OK.
And there's different ways you can do it here.
You could convert it to a list.
OK.
And then get the first item you could do that.
Or you could actually just use something like get the iterator on the keys and then just get the first
one by colon next.
So now we have the first keep k.
Just to show you that's where we get.
Right.
Is the first key.
So we have that and all we need to do now is just to say Pop keep K and then we should have
after Bob for them.
And as you can see a is gone.
So pretty neat right.
That's that's really neat.
So basically I'm not sure that you know we need an order dict anymore and it's probably going to remain
in the standard library for backward compatibility but most likely it's going to leverage now the deck
is going to be a thin wrapper around you know a regular dict because most of the functionality is already
there and dict.
If you want to find out how the dictionary was actually implemented and in this version of 3:6 then
you can go to the Web site.
It's really good.
It's basically a python a pure Python implementation of the dictionary of the new implementation of
dictionary that Raymond headings did.
And so he wrote this in Python to basically show me as a proof of concept and to show how it works.
Now obviously you know it's it's in the built in it's in C Python is going to be written in C..
But you can certainly see how it works and it's kind of standalone.
You if you go to pie pie and you try and take a look at it there.
Because that implementation is there almost that implementation is there.
It's quite a bit more difficult to follow.
This one is nice and self-contained but I will do a video later on in the schools when I get into the
section on dictionaries and we'll look at that in detail and see how it works.
That will help us understand hash maps and things like that.
All right.
Thanks for watching.